TASK_LIST.md, before:

# Anypod – Phase 1 Task List

This checklist covers everything required to reach a functional MVP that aligns with the design document. Tasks are ordered to minimise back-tracking and maximise fast feedback while you work in **Cursor**.

---

## 0  Repo Bootstrap
- [x] **Init git repo** – `git init --initial-branch=main && gh repo create`.
- [x] **`pyproject.toml`** – minimal project metadata, `uv` backend, Python ≥ 3.13.
- [x] **`uv pip install --groups dev`** – add dev deps: `ruff`, `pytest`, `pytest-asyncio`, `mypy`, `pre-commit`.
- [x] **Pre-commit hooks** – formatters & linter.
- [ ] **CI** – GitHub Actions workflow running `uv pip sync && pytest` on every PR.

## 1  Package Skeleton
```text
src/
    anypod/
        __init__.py
        cli.py                # entry‑point
        config.py             # Pydantic models & loader
        db.py                 # SQLite helpers & migrations, Download model (with from_row)
        file_manager.py       # FileManager implementation
        data_coordinator/     # Orchestrates DB + FS + Download operations
            __init__.py
            coordinator.py      # Main DataCoordinator class (orchestrator)
            enqueuer.py         # Enqueuer class (fetches metadata & enqueues)
            downloader.py       # Downloader class (processes download queue)
            pruner.py           # Pruner class (handles pruning logic)
        ytdlp_wrapper.py      # yt‑dlp direct wrapper
        scheduler.py          # APScheduler initialisation
        worker.py             # cron‑triggered job logic (delegates to DataCoordinator)
        feedgen.py            # thin wrapper
        http.py               # FastAPI app + routing
        utils.py              # misc helpers
        exceptions.py         # Custom exceptions
```

```
 tests/
    anypod/ # tests mirror the src/anypod structure
        integration/ # integration tests can be run with `pytest --integration`
```

## 2  Configuration Loader
- [x] Pydantic V2 models reflecting YAML keys.
- [x] `load_config(path) -> dict[str, FeedConfig]` (implemented via Pydantic Settings).
- [x] Unit tests using fixture YAML.

## 3  Database Layer
- [x] CRUD helpers:
  - [x] `add_download`
  - [x] `update_status`
  - [x] `next_queued_downloads`
  - [x] `get_download_by_id`
  - [x] `get_errors`
  - [x] `get_downloads_to_prune_by_keep_last`
  - [x] `get_downloads_to_prune_by_since`
  - [x] `delete_downloads`
- [x] Tests with tmp in-memory DB.
- [ ] Tests to make sure db access is optimized (e.g. uses indexes)

## 3.2 File Manager Layer
- [x] Abstraction seam: encapsulate base directory so future S3/GCS back‑ends can subclass
- [x] Implement `save_download_file(feed, file_name, data_stream) -> Path` (atomic write)
- [x] Implement `delete_download_file(feed, file_name) -> bool`
- [x] Implement `download_exists(feed, file_name) -> bool`
- [x] Implement `get_download_stream(feed, file_name) -> IO[bytes]`
- [x] Ensure directory hygiene: base download and feed directories exist (covered by save_download_file)
- [x] Write unit tests (tmp dir fixtures)

## 3.5 Data Orchestration & Services Layer
This section details the components that manage the lifecycle of downloads, from discovery to storage and pruning. They are organized into a `data_coordinator` module and related services/wrappers.

### 3.5.1 `db.py::Download` model updates
- [x] `from_row(cls, db_row: sqlite3.Row) -> Download` class method for mapping.

### 3.5.2 `YtdlpWrapper` (`ytdlp_wrapper.py`)
- [x] Create `ytdlp_wrapper.py` and class `YtdlpWrapper`.
- [x] `YtdlpWrapper.fetch_metadata(feed_id: str, url: str, yt_cli_args: list[str]) -> list[Download]`: Fetches metadata for all downloads at the given URL using yt-dlp's metadata extraction capabilities.
- [x] `YtdlpWrapper.download_media_to_file(download: Download, yt_cli_args: list[str], download_target_dir: Path) -> Path`:
    - Purpose: Downloads media (video or audio) for the given entry to a specified directory, handling potential merges (e.g., video + audio) via `yt-dlp` and FFmpeg.
    - Arguments:
        - `download`: Metadata of the entry to download, used for naming and context.
        - `yt_cli_args`: List of command-line arguments for `yt-dlp` (e.g., format selection from feed config).
        - `download_target_dir`: The base directory where the feed-specific subfolder and media file will be created.
    - Returns: `Path` to the successfully downloaded media file.
- [x] Sandbox test using a Creative-Commons short video, covered by integration tests using real URLs.
- [x] Unit tests for `YtdlpWrapper`.

### 3.5.2.1 Logger Side Quest
- [x] implement a global logging framework

### 3.5.3 `Enqueuer` (`data_coordinator/enqueuer.py`)
- [x] Constructor accepts `DatabaseManager`, `YtdlpWrapper`.
- [x] `enqueue_new_downloads(feed_config: FeedConfig) -> int`:
    - Phase 1: Re-fetch metadata for existing DB entries with status 'upcoming'; update those now VOD to 'queued'.
    - Phase 2: Fetch metadata for latest N videos via `YtdlpWrapper.fetch_metadata()`.
        - For each download not in DB:
            - If VOD (`live_status=='not_live'` and `is_live==False`), insert with status 'queued'.
            - If live or scheduled (`live_status=='upcoming'` or `is_live==True`), insert with status 'upcoming'.
        - For each existing 'upcoming' entry now VOD, update status to 'queued'.
    - Returns count of newly enqueued or transitioned-to-queued downloads.
- [x] preprocess cli args so you dont do it every time
- [x] handle cookies differently? they need to be included even at discovery stage
  - just include all args for all stages, including discovery; user will have limitations that need to be outlined in docs
- [x] db should not leak any details about sqlite -- should abstract all that away
    - for example, remove all references to sqlite.Row, sqlite.Error
- [x] retries should apply more widely, and with enough failures, should transition to error state
    - maybe db.py needs a `bump_error_count` fn that handles this - bumps it until it becomes too high, then marks as error
- [x] Unit tests for `Enqueuer` with mocked dependencies.
- [ ] a couple integration tests

### 3.5.3.1 TODO Side Quest
- [x] **Refactor Download Status Management (State Machine Implementation)**
    - **Phase 1: Database Layer (`db.py`)**
        - [x] Remove the existing `DatabaseManager.update_status` method.
        - [x] Implement `DatabaseManager.mark_as_queued_from_upcoming(feed: str, id: str) -> None`:
            - Checks that the current status is in fact `UPCOMING`
            - Sets `status = QUEUED`.
            - Preserves `retries` and `last_error`.
        - [x] Implement `DatabaseManager.requeue_download(feed: str, id: str) -> None`:
            - Add a note that this will happen due to:
              - manually requeueing an ERROR'd download,
              - manually requeueing in order to get the latest version of a download (i.e. it was previously DOWNLOAD)
              - un-SKIPping a video
              - don't implement this as logic, but just as a note on the docstring
            - Sets `status = QUEUED`.
            - Sets `retries = 0`, `last_error = NULL`.
        - [x] Implement `DatabaseManager.mark_as_downloaded(feed: str, id: str) -> None`:
            - Sets `status = DOWNLOADED`.
            - Sets `retries = 0`, `last_error = NULL`.
        - [x] Implement `DatabaseManager.skip_download(feed: str, id: str) -> None`:
            - Sets `status = SKIPPED`.
            - Preserves `retries` and `last_error`.
            - Raises `DownloadNotFoundError` or `DatabaseOperationError` on failure.
        - [x] Implement `DatabaseManager.unskip_download(feed_id: str, download_id: str) -> DownloadStatus`:
            - Checks that the download is currently `SKIPPED`.
            - Calls `requeue_download(feed_id, download_id)`.
            - Returns `DownloadStatus.QUEUED`.
            - Raises `DownloadNotFoundError` or `DatabaseOperationError` on failure.
        - [x] Implement `DatabaseManager.archive_download(feed: str, id: str) -> None`:
            - Sets `status = ARCHIVED`.
            - Preserves `retries` and `last_error`.
            - Raises `DownloadNotFoundError` or `DatabaseOperationError` on failure.
        - [x] Modify `DatabaseManager.get_download_by_id(feed: str, id: str) -> Download`:
            - Change return type from `Download | None` to `Download`.
            - Raises `DownloadNotFoundError` if not found.
            - Raises `DatabaseOperationError` for other DB issues.
            - Raises `ValueError` if row parsing fails.
        - [x] Verify `DatabaseManager.upsert_download` correctly handles initial setting of `UPCOMING` or `QUEUED` status based on the input `Download` object, ensuring `retries` and `last_error` are appropriate for new items.
        - [x] Verify `DatabaseManager.bump_retries` remains the sole mechanism for incrementing retries and transitioning to `ERROR` status (and handles `DownloadNotFoundError` from `get_download_by_id`).
    - **Phase 2: Service Layer Updates**
        - [x] **`Enqueuer` (`data_coordinator/enqueuer.py`)**:
            - [x] Update `_process_single_download` to correctly handle `DownloadNotFoundError` from `get_download_by_id`.
            - [x] Refactor `_update_download_status_in_db` (or remove it) and its call sites (`_update_status_to_queued_if_vod`, `_handle_existing_fetched_download`):
                - When an `UPCOMING` download becomes a VOD, call `db_manager.mark_as_queued_from_upcoming`. Adapt to its new signature (returns `None`, raises exceptions).
                - For other status changes previously handled by `_update_download_status_in_db` (e.g., an existing `ERROR` record being re-processed from feed and needing to be `QUEUED`), evaluate if `db_manager.requeue_download` should be used or if current `upsert_download` logic in `_handle_existing_fetched_download` is sufficient.
            - Ensure `bump_retries` calls remain correct for metadata fetch failures.
        - [x] **`Pruner` (`data_coordinator/pruner.py`)**:
            - When pruning items, call `db_manager.archive_download`. Adapt to its new signature (returns `None`, raises exceptions). File deletion logic is already handled by `Pruner` correctly before this step.
    - **Phase 3: Test Updates**
        - [x] **`tests/anypod/db/test_db.py`**:
            - Remove tests for the old `db_manager.update_status`.
            - Add/Update comprehensive unit tests for all new/modified `db_manager.mark_as_*`, `db_manager.requeue_*`, `db_manager.unskip_download`, and `db_manager.get_download_by_id` methods, including exception checking.
            - Ensure tests for `upsert_download` cover setting initial `UPCOMING` and `QUEUED` states.
            - Ensure tests for `bump_retries` are still valid and cover its role, especially `DownloadNotFoundError` handling.
        - [x] **`tests/anypod/data_coordinator/test_enqueuer.py`**:
            - Update mocks and assertions for `db_manager.get_download_by_id` to reflect new exception-raising behavior.
            - Update mocks for status update calls to the new `db_manager.mark_as_queued_from_upcoming` or `db_manager.requeue_download` methods. Verify correct arguments and exception handling.
            - Verify `upsert_download` is called with correctly statused `Download` objects.
- [x] address various TODOs throughout code base

### 3.5.4 `Downloader` Service (`data_coordinator/downloader.py`)
- [x] Constructor accepts `DatabaseManager`, `FileManager`, `YtdlpWrapper`.
- [x] `download_queued(feed_id: str, feed_config: FeedConfig, limit: int = -1) -> tuple[int, int]`: (success_count, failure_count)
    - Gets queued `Download` objects via `DatabaseManager.get_downloads_by_status`.
    - For each `Download`:
        - Call `YtdlpWrapper.download_media_to_file(download, yt_cli_args)`.
            - Generate final file_name (e.g., using `download.title` and `updated_metadata['ext']`).
            - Call `FileManager.save_download_file(feed_config.name, final_file_name, source_file_path=completed_file_path)`.
                - (Note: `FileManager.save_download_file` will need to implement moving a file from `source_file_path` to its final managed location.)
            - Update DB: status to 'downloaded', store final path from `FileManager`, update `ext`, `filesize` from `updated_metadata`.
        - On failure:
            - Update DB: status to 'error', log error, increment retries.
        - Ensure cleanup of source file regardless of success/failure of the individual download.
- [x] Unit tests for `Downloader` (Service) with mocked dependencies.
- [x] Debug mode for Enqueuer

### 3.5.5 `Pruner` (`data_coordinator/pruner.py`)
- [x] Use old implementation for reference, but prepare for largely a full rewrite
- [x] Constructor accepts `DatabaseManager`, `FileManager`.
- [x] `prune_feed_downloads(feed_id: str, keep_last: int | None, prune_before_date: datetime | None) -> tuple[int, int]`: (archived_count, files_deleted_count)
    - Uses `DatabaseManager` to get candidates
    - Uses `FileManager.delete_download_file()` for download.
    - Uses `DatabaseManager.archive_download()` to archive.
- [x] Unit tests for `Pruner` with mocked dependencies.

### 3.5.6 `DataCoordinator` Orchestrator (`data_coordinator/coordinator.py`)
- [ ] Constructor accepts `Enqueuer`, `Downloader`, `Pruner`, `FeedGen`, `DatabaseManager`, `FileManager` (for pass-through methods like `get_download_by_id`, `stream_download_by_id`, etc.).
- [ ] `process_feed(feed_config: FeedConfig) -> None`:
    - Calls `Enqueuer.enqueue_new_downloads()`.
    - Calls `Downloader.download_queued()`.
    - Calls `Pruner.prune_feed_downloads()`.
    - Calls `FeedGen.generate_feed_xml()`.
- [ ] `add_download` (delegates to DB, handles file deletion if replacing DOWNLOADED)
- [ ] `update_status` (delegates to DB, handles file deletion on status change from DOWNLOADED)
- [ ] `get_download_by_id` (delegates to DB, uses `Download.from_row`)
- [ ] `stream_download_by_id` (delegates to `FileManager` after checking DB status via `get_download_by_id`, handles `FileNotFoundError` by updating status to ERROR)
- [ ] `get_errors` (delegates to DB, uses `Download.from_row`)
- [ ] Unit tests for `DataCoordinator` focusing on interaction correctness with mocked service dependencies.

### 3.5.7 Discrepancy Detection (in `Pruner` or new service)
- [ ] Implement discrepancy detection logic:
  - [ ] Find DB entries with `DOWNLOADED` status but no corresponding download file.
  - [ ] Find download files on disk with no corresponding `DOWNLOADED` DB entry.
  - [ ] (Optional) Automated resolution strategies or reporting for discrepancies.
- [ ] Unit tests for discrepancy detection logic.

### 3.5.8 General
- [ ] check for commonalities in generated data in tests and see if we can extract a fixture out of them

## 4  Feed Generation
- [x] Determine if a [read/write lock](https://pypi.org/project/readerwriterlock/) for in-memory feed XML cache is needed for concurrency
- [x] add new fields to Download
  - this will also involve potentially changing how i update values, since some (like title) might get changed down the line. so we should try to store the most recent value
- [ ] Implement `generate_feed_xml(feed_id)` to write to in-memory XML after acquiring write lock
- [ ] Implement `get_feed_xml(feed_id)` for HTTP handlers to read from in-memory XML after acquiring read lock
- [ ] Write unit tests to verify enclosure URLs and MIME types in generated feeds
- [ ] Not really related: maybe I can collapse the concepts of enqueuer and downloader into 1: basically skip the QUEUED state for any immediately ready videos (go straight to download). Only issue is then how do we queue upcoming videos? maybe explicit live handler? but then duplicate download logic?
- [ ] Prevent magic values (url path, file path). maybe have an intermediate that knows all types of paths that file_manager and feedgen reach out to? or some unified type that can output both in a stable way?
- [ ] Figure out how to bring in host url.
- [ ] duration should be an int

## 5  Scheduler / Worker Loop
- [ ] Init APScheduler (asyncio).
- [ ] For each feed add cron trigger → `process_feed`.
- [ ] Implement `process_feed` steps via DataCoordinator and FeedGen: ① enqueue → ② download → ③ prune → ④ generate RSS
- [ ] On startup, trigger a retrieve-and-update loop for all feeds to generate XML before starting the HTTP server

## 6  Scheduler / Worker Loop
- [ ] Create FastAPI app: static mounts `/feeds` & `/media`.
- [ ] Routes `/errors` and `/healthz`.
- [ ] Entry in `cli.py` to start `uvicorn`.
- [ ] Tests with `httpx` for endpoints.

## 7  CLI & Flags
- [ ] `python -m anypod` parses flags: `--ignore-startup-errors`, `--retry-failed`, `--log-level`.
- [ ] Docstrings and `argparse` help messages.
- [ ] Evaluate logged statements and make sure that only relevant things get logged
- [ ] when using `--retry-failed`, should also include a date so that we disregard VERY old failures
  - errors will be common because live videos may be deleted and reuploaded as regular VODs
- [ ] write README
  - outline limitations with using ytdlp flags -- which ones do you have to avoid using?
  - look up some well established open source projects and follow their documentation style

## 8  Docker & Dev Flow
- [ ] `Dockerfile` (python:3.13-slim, default root, overridable UID/GID).
- [ ] `.dockerignore` to exclude tests, .git, caches.
- [ ] set up a dev env with containers.

## 9  Release Automation
- [ ] GH Action `release-yt-dlp.yaml`: on yt-dlp tag → rebuild, test, draft release.
- [ ] GH Action `deps-bump.yaml`: weekly minor‑bump PR; require manual approval for major

---

When all boxes are checked, you'll be able to run:

```bash
docker run \
  -v $(pwd)/config:/config \
  -v $(pwd)/data:/data \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  ghcr.io/<you>/anypod:dev
```

…and subscribe to `http://localhost:8000/feeds/this_american_life.xml` in your podcast player.

Commit message:

implement path manager that centralizes file and url paths

TASK_LIST.md, after:

# Anypod – Phase 1 Task List

This checklist covers everything required to reach a functional MVP that aligns with the design document. Tasks are ordered to minimise back-tracking and maximise fast feedback while you work in **Cursor**.

---

## 0  Repo Bootstrap
- [x] **Init git repo** – `git init --initial-branch=main && gh repo create`.
- [x] **`pyproject.toml`** – minimal project metadata, `uv` backend, Python ≥ 3.13.
- [x] **`uv pip install --groups dev`** – add dev deps: `ruff`, `pytest`, `pytest-asyncio`, `mypy`, `pre-commit`.
- [x] **Pre-commit hooks** – formatters & linter.
- [ ] **CI** – GitHub Actions workflow running `uv pip sync && pytest` on every PR.

## 1  Package Skeleton
```text
src/
    anypod/
        __init__.py
        cli.py                # entry‑point
        config.py             # Pydantic models & loader
        db.py                 # SQLite helpers & migrations, Download model (with from_row)
        file_manager.py       # FileManager implementation
        data_coordinator/     # Orchestrates DB + FS + Download operations
            __init__.py
            coordinator.py      # Main DataCoordinator class (orchestrator)
            enqueuer.py         # Enqueuer class (fetches metadata & enqueues)
            downloader.py       # Downloader class (processes download queue)
            pruner.py           # Pruner class (handles pruning logic)
        ytdlp_wrapper.py      # yt‑dlp direct wrapper
        scheduler.py          # APScheduler initialisation
        worker.py             # cron‑triggered job logic (delegates to DataCoordinator)
        feedgen.py            # thin wrapper
        http.py               # FastAPI app + routing
        utils.py              # misc helpers
        exceptions.py         # Custom exceptions
```

```
 tests/
    anypod/ # tests mirror the src/anypod structure
        integration/ # integration tests can be run with `pytest --integration`
```

## 2  Configuration Loader
- [x] Pydantic V2 models reflecting YAML keys.
- [x] `load_config(path) -> dict[str, FeedConfig]` (implemented via Pydantic Settings).
- [x] Unit tests using fixture YAML.

## 3  Database Layer
- [x] CRUD helpers:
  - [x] `add_download`
  - [x] `update_status`
  - [x] `next_queued_downloads`
  - [x] `get_download_by_id`
  - [x] `get_errors`
  - [x] `get_downloads_to_prune_by_keep_last`
  - [x] `get_downloads_to_prune_by_since`
  - [x] `delete_downloads`
- [x] Tests with tmp in-memory DB.
- [ ] Tests to make sure db access is optimized (e.g. uses indexes)

## 3.2 File Manager Layer
- [x] Abstraction seam: encapsulate base directory so future S3/GCS back‑ends can subclass
- [x] Implement `save_download_file(feed, file_name, data_stream) -> Path` (atomic write)
- [x] Implement `delete_download_file(feed, file_name) -> bool`
- [x] Implement `download_exists(feed, file_name) -> bool`
- [x] Implement `get_download_stream(feed, file_name) -> IO[bytes]`
- [x] Ensure directory hygiene: base download and feed directories exist (covered by save_download_file)
- [x] Write unit tests (tmp dir fixtures)

## 3.5 Data Orchestration & Services Layer
This section details the components that manage the lifecycle of downloads, from discovery to storage and pruning. They are organized into a `data_coordinator` module and related services/wrappers.

### 3.5.1 `db.py::Download` model updates
- [x] `from_row(cls, db_row: sqlite3.Row) -> Download` class method for mapping.

### 3.5.2 `YtdlpWrapper` (`ytdlp_wrapper.py`)
- [x] Create `ytdlp_wrapper.py` and class `YtdlpWrapper`.
- [x] `YtdlpWrapper.fetch_metadata(feed_id: str, url: str, yt_cli_args: list[str]) -> list[Download]`: Fetches metadata for all downloads at the given URL using yt-dlp's metadata extraction capabilities.
- [x] `YtdlpWrapper.download_media_to_file(download: Download, yt_cli_args: list[str], download_target_dir: Path) -> Path`:
    - Purpose: Downloads media (video or audio) for the given entry to a specified directory, handling potential merges (e.g., video + audio) via `yt-dlp` and FFmpeg.
    - Arguments:
        - `download`: Metadata of the entry to download, used for naming and context.
        - `yt_cli_args`: List of command-line arguments for `yt-dlp` (e.g., format selection from feed config).
        - `download_target_dir`: The base directory where the feed-specific subfolder and media file will be created.
    - Returns: `Path` to the successfully downloaded media file.
- [x] Sandbox test using a Creative-Commons short video, covered by integration tests using real URLs.
- [x] Unit tests for `YtdlpWrapper`.

### 3.5.2.1 Logger Side Quest
- [x] implement a global logging framework

### 3.5.3 `Enqueuer` (`data_coordinator/enqueuer.py`)
- [x] Constructor accepts `DatabaseManager`, `YtdlpWrapper`.
- [x] `enqueue_new_downloads(feed_config: FeedConfig) -> int`:
    - Phase 1: Re-fetch metadata for existing DB entries with status 'upcoming'; update those now VOD to 'queued'.
    - Phase 2: Fetch metadata for latest N videos via `YtdlpWrapper.fetch_metadata()`.
        - For each download not in DB:
            - If VOD (`live_status=='not_live'` and `is_live==False`), insert with status 'queued'.
            - If live or scheduled (`live_status=='upcoming'` or `is_live==True`), insert with status 'upcoming'.
        - For each existing 'upcoming' entry now VOD, update status to 'queued'.
    - Returns count of newly enqueued or transitioned-to-queued downloads.
- [x] preprocess cli args so you dont do it every time
- [x] handle cookies differently? they need to be included even at discovery stage
  - just include all args for all stages, including discovery; user will have limitations that need to be outlined in docs
- [x] db should not leak any details about sqlite -- should abstract all that away
    - for example, remove all references to sqlite.Row, sqlite.Error
- [x] retries should apply more widely, and with enough failures, should transition to error state
    - maybe db.py needs a `bump_error_count` fn that handles this - bumps it until it becomes too high, then marks as error
- [x] Unit tests for `Enqueuer` with mocked dependencies.
- [ ] a couple integration tests

### 3.5.3.1 TODO Side Quest
- [x] **Refactor Download Status Management (State Machine Implementation)**
    - **Phase 1: Database Layer (`db.py`)**
        - [x] Remove the existing `DatabaseManager.update_status` method.
        - [x] Implement `DatabaseManager.mark_as_queued_from_upcoming(feed: str, id: str) -> None`:
            - Checks that the current status is in fact `UPCOMING`
            - Sets `status = QUEUED`.
            - Preserves `retries` and `last_error`.
        - [x] Implement `DatabaseManager.requeue_download(feed: str, id: str) -> None`:
            - Add a note that this will happen due to:
              - manually requeueing an ERROR'd download,
              - manually requeueing in order to get the latest version of a download (i.e. it was previously DOWNLOAD)
              - un-SKIPping a video
              - don't implement this as logic, but just as a note on the docstring
            - Sets `status = QUEUED`.
            - Sets `retries = 0`, `last_error = NULL`.
        - [x] Implement `DatabaseManager.mark_as_downloaded(feed: str, id: str) -> None`:
            - Sets `status = DOWNLOADED`.
            - Sets `retries = 0`, `last_error = NULL`.
        - [x] Implement `DatabaseManager.skip_download(feed: str, id: str) -> None`:
            - Sets `status = SKIPPED`.
            - Preserves `retries` and `last_error`.
            - Raises `DownloadNotFoundError` or `DatabaseOperationError` on failure.
        - [x] Implement `DatabaseManager.unskip_download(feed_id: str, download_id: str) -> DownloadStatus`:
            - Checks that the download is currently `SKIPPED`.
            - Calls `requeue_download(feed_id, download_id)`.
            - Returns `DownloadStatus.QUEUED`.
            - Raises `DownloadNotFoundError` or `DatabaseOperationError` on failure.
        - [x] Implement `DatabaseManager.archive_download(feed: str, id: str) -> None`:
            - Sets `status = ARCHIVED`.
            - Preserves `retries` and `last_error`.
            - Raises `DownloadNotFoundError` or `DatabaseOperationError` on failure.
        - [x] Modify `DatabaseManager.get_download_by_id(feed: str, id: str) -> Download`:
            - Change return type from `Download | None` to `Download`.
            - Raises `DownloadNotFoundError` if not found.
            - Raises `DatabaseOperationError` for other DB issues.
            - Raises `ValueError` if row parsing fails.
        - [x] Verify `DatabaseManager.upsert_download` correctly handles initial setting of `UPCOMING` or `QUEUED` status based on the input `Download` object, ensuring `retries` and `last_error` are appropriate for new items.
        - [x] Verify `DatabaseManager.bump_retries` remains the sole mechanism for incrementing retries and transitioning to `ERROR` status (and handles `DownloadNotFoundError` from `get_download_by_id`).
    - **Phase 2: Service Layer Updates**
        - [x] **`Enqueuer` (`data_coordinator/enqueuer.py`)**:
            - [x] Update `_process_single_download` to correctly handle `DownloadNotFoundError` from `get_download_by_id`.
            - [x] Refactor `_update_download_status_in_db` (or remove it) and its call sites (`_update_status_to_queued_if_vod`, `_handle_existing_fetched_download`):
                - When an `UPCOMING` download becomes a VOD, call `db_manager.mark_as_queued_from_upcoming`. Adapt to its new signature (returns `None`, raises exceptions).
                - For other status changes previously handled by `_update_download_status_in_db` (e.g., an existing `ERROR` record being re-processed from feed and needing to be `QUEUED`), evaluate if `db_manager.requeue_download` should be used or if current `upsert_download` logic in `_handle_existing_fetched_download` is sufficient.
            - Ensure `bump_retries` calls remain correct for metadata fetch failures.
        - [x] **`Pruner` (`data_coordinator/pruner.py`)**:
            - When pruning items, call `db_manager.archive_download`. Adapt to its new signature (returns `None`, raises exceptions). File deletion logic is already handled by `Pruner` correctly before this step.
    - **Phase 3: Test Updates**
        - [x] **`tests/anypod/db/test_db.py`**:
            - Remove tests for the old `db_manager.update_status`.
            - Add/Update comprehensive unit tests for all new/modified `db_manager.mark_as_*`, `db_manager.requeue_*`, `db_manager.unskip_download`, and `db_manager.get_download_by_id` methods, including exception checking.
            - Ensure tests for `upsert_download` cover setting initial `UPCOMING` and `QUEUED` states.
            - Ensure tests for `bump_retries` are still valid and cover its role, especially `DownloadNotFoundError` handling.
        - [x] **`tests/anypod/data_coordinator/test_enqueuer.py`**:
            - Update mocks and assertions for `db_manager.get_download_by_id` to reflect new exception-raising behavior.
            - Update mocks for status update calls to the new `db_manager.mark_as_queued_from_upcoming` or `db_manager.requeue_download` methods. Verify correct arguments and exception handling.
            - Verify `upsert_download` is called with correctly statused `Download` objects.
- [x] address various TODOs throughout code base

### 3.5.4 `Downloader` Service (`data_coordinator/downloader.py`)
- [x] Constructor accepts `DatabaseManager`, `FileManager`, `YtdlpWrapper`.
- [x] `download_queued(feed_id: str, feed_config: FeedConfig, limit: int = -1) -> tuple[int, int]`: (success_count, failure_count)
    - Gets queued `Download` objects via `DatabaseManager.get_downloads_by_status`.
    - For each `Download`:
        - Call `YtdlpWrapper.download_media_to_file(download, yt_cli_args)`.
            - Generate final file_name (e.g., using `download.title` and `updated_metadata['ext']`).
            - Call `FileManager.save_download_file(feed_config.name, final_file_name, source_file_path=completed_file_path)`.
                - (Note: `FileManager.save_download_file` will need to implement moving a file from `source_file_path` to its final managed location.)
            - Update DB: status to 'downloaded', store final path from `FileManager`, update `ext`, `filesize` from `updated_metadata`.
        - On failure:
            - Update DB: status to 'error', log error, increment retries.
        - Ensure cleanup of source file regardless of success/failure of the individual download.
- [x] Unit tests for `Downloader` (Service) with mocked dependencies.
- [x] Debug mode for Enqueuer

### 3.5.5 `Pruner` (`data_coordinator/pruner.py`)
- [x] Use old implementation for reference, but prepare for largely a full rewrite
- [x] Constructor accepts `DatabaseManager`, `FileManager`.
- [x] `prune_feed_downloads(feed_id: str, keep_last: int | None, prune_before_date: datetime | None) -> tuple[int, int]`: (archived_count, files_deleted_count)
    - Uses `DatabaseManager` to get candidates
    - Uses `FileManager.delete_download_file()` for download.
    - Uses `DatabaseManager.archive_download()` to archive.
- [x] Unit tests for `Pruner` with mocked dependencies.

### 3.5.6 `DataCoordinator` Orchestrator (`data_coordinator/coordinator.py`)
- [ ] Constructor accepts `Enqueuer`, `Downloader`, `Pruner`, `FeedGen`, `DatabaseManager`, `FileManager` (for pass-through methods like `get_download_by_id`, `stream_download_by_id`, etc.).
- [ ] `process_feed(feed_config: FeedConfig) -> None`:
    - Calls `Enqueuer.enqueue_new_downloads()`.
    - Calls `Downloader.download_queued()`.
    - Calls `Pruner.prune_feed_downloads()`.
    - Calls `FeedGen.generate_feed_xml()`.
- [ ] `add_download` (delegates to DB, handles file deletion if replacing DOWNLOADED)
- [ ] `update_status` (delegates to DB, handles file deletion on status change from DOWNLOADED)
- [ ] `get_download_by_id` (delegates to DB, uses `Download.from_row`)
- [ ] `stream_download_by_id` (delegates to `FileManager` after checking DB status via `get_download_by_id`, handles `FileNotFoundError` by updating status to ERROR)
- [ ] `get_errors` (delegates to DB, uses `Download.from_row`)
- [ ] Unit tests for `DataCoordinator` focusing on interaction correctness with mocked service dependencies.

### 3.5.7 Discrepancy Detection (in `Pruner` or new service)
- [ ] Implement discrepancy detection logic:
  - [ ] Find DB entries with `DOWNLOADED` status but no corresponding download file.
  - [ ] Find download files on disk with no corresponding `DOWNLOADED` DB entry.
  - [ ] (Optional) Automated resolution strategies or reporting for discrepancies.
- [ ] Unit tests for discrepancy detection logic.

### 3.5.8 General
- [ ] check for commonalities in generated data in tests and see if we can extract a fixture out of them

## 4  Feed Generation
- [x] Determine if a [read/write lock](https://pypi.org/project/readerwriterlock/) for in-memory feed XML cache is needed for concurrency
- [x] add new fields to Download
  - this will also involve potentially changing how i update values, since some (like title) might get changed down the line. so we should try to store the most recent value
- [x] Implement `generate_feed_xml(feed_id)` to write to in-memory XML after acquiring write lock
- [x] Implement `get_feed_xml(feed_id)` for HTTP handlers to read from in-memory XML after acquiring read lock
- [ ] Write unit tests to verify enclosure URLs and MIME types in generated feeds
- [ ] Not really related: maybe I can collapse the concepts of enqueuer and downloader into 1: basically skip the QUEUED state for any immediately ready videos (go straight to download). Only issue is then how do we queue upcoming videos? maybe explicit live handler? but then duplicate download logic?
- [x] Figure out how to bring in host url.
- [x] duration should be an int

## 4.1 Path Management Centralization
- [x] **PathManager Implementation** – Create centralized path/URL coordination class:
  - [x] Single source of truth for file system paths and URLs based on feed_id + download_id
  - [x] Consistent 1:1 mapping between network paths and file paths
  - [x] Methods for feed directories, RSS URLs, and media file paths/URLs
  - [x] Google-style docstrings with proper Args/Returns/Raises sections
- [x] `FileManager` refactor
- [x] `Pruner` refactor
- [x] `RSSFeedGenerator` refactor
- [x] tests refactor

## 5  Scheduler / Worker Loop
- [ ] Init APScheduler (asyncio).
- [ ] For each feed add cron trigger → `process_feed`.
- [ ] Implement `process_feed` steps via DataCoordinator and FeedGen: ① enqueue → ② download → ③ prune → ④ generate RSS
- [ ] On startup, trigger a retrieve-and-update loop for all feeds to generate XML before starting the HTTP server

## 6  Scheduler / Worker Loop
- [ ] Create FastAPI app: static mounts `/feeds` & `/media`.
- [ ] Routes `/errors` and `/healthz`.
- [ ] Entry in `cli.py` to start `uvicorn`.
- [ ] Tests with `httpx` for endpoints.

## 7  CLI & Flags
- [ ] `python -m anypod` parses flags: `--ignore-startup-errors`, `--retry-failed`, `--log-level`.
- [ ] Docstrings and `argparse` help messages.
- [ ] Evaluate logged statements and make sure that only relevant things get logged
- [ ] when using `--retry-failed`, should also include a date so that we disregard VERY old failures
  - errors will be common because live videos may be deleted and reuploaded as regular VODs
- [ ] write README
  - outline limitations with using ytdlp flags -- which ones do you have to avoid using?
  - look up some well established open source projects and follow their documentation style

## 8  Docker & Dev Flow
- [ ] `Dockerfile` (python:3.13-slim, default root, overridable UID/GID).
- [ ] `.dockerignore` to exclude tests, .git, caches.
- [ ] set up a dev env with containers.

## 9  Release Automation
- [ ] GH Action `release-yt-dlp.yaml`: on yt-dlp tag → rebuild, test, draft release.
- [ ] GH Action `deps-bump.yaml`: weekly minor‑bump PR; require manual approval for major

---

When all boxes are checked, you'll be able to run:

```bash
docker run \
  -v $(pwd)/config:/config \
  -v $(pwd)/data:/data \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  ghcr.io/<you>/anypod:dev
```

…and subscribe to `http://localhost:8000/feeds/this_american_life.xml` in your podcast player.
